<div id='top'><div>
<br>
<h1 align="center">Learning Journal 11 April 2022</h1>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#What-I-Learned-today"> What I Learned today?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#What-difficulties-did-I-encounter">What difficulties did I encounter?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#How-do-I-solve-the-issues">How do I solve the login issues?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Room-to-improve">Room to improve?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Resource-Links">Resource Links</a></li>
      </ul>
</details>

# What I Learned today?

##### Day 7 (Sunday) mainly catching up and revision on Day 1-4 notes main focus on deeper understanding and practice Syntax and Class & Interfaces, Object Types and Inheritance

- Deeper understanding on TypeScript Basic Syntax and Structure
- How to apply TypeScript Closure
- Find out more about Invoked Function
- Clearer picture on how OOP works in TS
- How to configure function to work with interfaces
- How classes implementing interfaces

##### Day 8 (Monday) and today's focus mainly on Object Types, TypesScript's Modules and React Native Setting Up

- Special syntax call "Namespaces"
- What is Asynchronous behaviour in TS
- Higher Order Functions and callbacks method
- Work with Promises but need more practice to understand the concept
- Class and method decorators
- Dig deep Optional Chaining
- Have a deep look and read through the Modules documentation
- Completed Udemy's course content on Introduction to TypeScript Development
- Go through React Native project and completed vid1-12 setting up and  practice first component with Udemy course
- Understand how to Capitalize the First Letter of every word in TS

```TypeScript
const pageTitle1 = "cj's learning journal";
const pageTitle2 = "Cj's Learning Journal";
const pageTitle3 = "cJ rEAllY a kEeN lEarnER";
const pageTitle4 = "";

const capitalizeWord = (str: string) => {
  const firstChar = str.CharAt(0).toLocaleLowerCase;
  const firstOfStr = str.subString(1).toLocaleLowerCase();

  return `${firstChar}$restOfStr}`;
};

const capitalizeEachWord = (str: string) => 
str split(" ")
  .map((word: string) => capitalizeWord(word))
  .join(" ");

  capitalizeEachWord(pageTitle1);
  capitalizeEachWord(pageTitle2);
  capitalizeEachWord(pageTitle3);
  capitalizeEachWord(pageTitle4);
```

## What difficulties did I encounter?

1. Today is mainly on setup of React Native Project, everything seem working fine, only difficulty was my slow learning pace.

## How do I solve the issues?

1. Hopefully once I get more understanding of the new language and work flow, I'll be able to gather more pace.

## Room to improve?

- Continue pushing hard to practice OOP concepts: Classes, Instances, Constructors and this. syntax

- Continue to work on the more advance concepts, its feature, workflows and how to use it.

- Day 9 is continue to learn and practice on React Native concepts and at the same time get more familiar with Git & Github workflows.

- After familiar with React Native, required to go back to build Udemy's Drag & Drop Project with TypeScript

- Learn to generate React Application that uses TypeScript

- Build React Components with TypeScript Interfaces for scalable features

## MY GOAL

#### Aim to practice by building many small projects with TypeScript then React Native to embed the concepts deeply

<p align="left">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Acknowledgments

- Resources Provided by:
  - Anya Huang

- Readme Template Provided by:
  - [Othneil Drew](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template)

## Resource Links

- [Day 6: React Native Project Setting Up & First Component](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fa032pQuv8I8gXU7pqMd20sJfbnJZnPqVqdSlo9_v8s/edit#heading=h.sjc7nb6il2di)
  
- [Introduction to TypeScript Development](https://nlbsg.udemy.com/course/introduction-typescript-development/learn/lecture/25793150?start=675#content)

- [The Complete React Native + Hooks Course](https://nlbsg.udemy.com/course/the-complete-react-native-and-redux-course/learn/lecture/15706372#overview)

<p align="left">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
