<div id='top'><div>
<br>
<h1 aligh="center">Learning Journal 07 April 2022</h1>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#What-I-Learned-today"> What I Learned today?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#What-difficulties-did-I-encounter">What difficulties did I encounter?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#How-do-I-solve-the-issues">How do I solve the login issues?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Room-to-improve">Room to improve?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Software-Installed">Software Installed</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Resource-Links">Resource Links</a></li>
      </ul>

</details>

# What I Learned today?

- Day 4  of apprenticeship and today's focus mainly on TypeScript Basic Types & Functions:

- Practice on Type Aliases, Custom Types and Object Types
- Revision on Types Narrowing with if check
- Practice on Return Types & Void
- Practice on Function as Types
- Try Function Types & Callbacks
- Learn about unknown & never types
- Learn about Parameter Type Annotation
- Learn about Return Type Annotation & Anonymous Function 
- Learn about Generic Function
- Mainly Reviewing and Practicing Arrow Functions, Ternary Operators and if check with type of.

## What difficulties did I encounter?

1. return type annotation to put or not to put?
since TS will infer our return type based on our return statement,
which method is a better practice?
or it depend on codebase style?

2. is "unknown" "never" function type commonly use?

## How do I solve the issues?

After explanation from Anya & Janna my puzzle is solved.

1. Understand return type annotation
   - Understand need add return type most of the time
   - Understand typescript is a "typed version of javascript", where we enforce the types to ensure our code has fewer bugs
   - Understand for small projects, you can get away with javascript no issues, no typing needed
   - Understand when we work on larger projects where maintenance of code is important, we usually start thinking of using stronger typed languages like typescript, as it helps as maintain code quality
   - Understand for good practice even the return type can be inferred from the codes. but sometimes the codes changes accidentally and then it might cause issue
   - Understand when we write the return type, it will ensure that whenever we parse the functions, we force the consuming line to use the return type accordingly as how we typed in the function especially when code change very often
  
2. "unknown" & "never" Types
   - Understand "unknown" is used quite often
   - Understand unknown is for the cases you are not sure or not care about the type of variable or parameter
   - Understand unknown is use when want to type cast like change the type or something or in test cases.
   - Understand unknown is more graceful than any
   - Understand unknown and any, the difference is that any is considered a 'usable' type. Meaning it is valid syntax. Unknown on the other hand will flag out as an error. To enable the user of unknown, we have to explicitly type cast to make it valid

## Room to improve?

Try to catch up with Day 3 notes, currently lagging behind by 1.5 days work.
Still pushing hard to understand Arrow Function and Generic Functions .
Continue to work on the basics, its feature, workflows and how to use it.
Day 5 is continue to learn and practice Functions such as Arrow functions, Generic functions, Function Type, Call Signatures, Optional Paramenters, Rest Parameters and Parameter Destructuring.

After completed functions, will move on to Object Types in Friday Afternoon.

Aim to practice by building of small projects with TypeScript then React Native .

<p align="left">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Acknowledgments

- Resources Provided by:
  - Anya Huang

- Readme Template Provided by:
  - [Othneil Drew](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template)

## Resource Links

- [TypeScript ANY vs UNKNOWN](https://dev.to/tomdohnal/typescript-any-vs-unknown-a-deep-dive-3iem)

- [Day 3: React Native Training Course](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gvp4YxdE8aR26AYspRR52oY_SPSofc-eFteKg-imUCU/edit)
  
- [Day 4: React Native Training Course](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U3ox3hbFrJiRdioJW485wjK60HGyjeNGp0W0BYpjKB8/edit#heading=h.6ylm5h2iamf9)

- [Generic Arrow Functions](https://www.carlrippon.com/generic-arrow-functions/)

- [Syntax for Typescript Arrow Functions with Generics?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32308370/what-is-the-syntax-for-typescript-arrow-functions-with-generics)

- [More on Functions](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/functions.html)

<p align="left">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
