<div id='top'><div>
<br>
<h1 aligh="center">Learning Journal 04 April 2022</h1>

# What I Learned today?

Today marked my first day of apprenticeship and I am very happy to be able to start my journey into the world of programming. I have been looking forward to learn a lot of new things and I am very happy to be able to share my knowledge with others.
<br>
Day 1 was mainly  assigned to familiarize company's environment, vision,value  and personnels.<br>
After daily standup in mid morning we continue to setup company-issued machines and related software for next 40 days of  React Native lesson before we started our on-the-job training.<br>


## What difficulties did I encounter?

As part of setting up for the technical lessons, we are required to clone and push a new repo to github. Being unfamiliar with a new machine, I had face a login issues. I was able to login to my github account, I was able to clone the repo but was unable to push the changes to the repo.

## How do I solve the login issues?

After some reading on Goggle search, identify it as a security issue and then follow the steps to fix it.
I delete my github token and then re-setup a new SSH key with the help of Github instructions. 
After fixing the issue, I was able to push the changes to the repo.

## Room to improve?


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments
* Resources Provided by:
    * Anya Huang
* Readme  Template Provided by:
  * [Othneil Drew](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template)
* Resources Link Template Provided by:
    * Alvin Tan

<!-- Resource Links -->
## Resource Links
* [Set Up VPN](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1zX37rof2u_ZkxZECg0OvjTi_5zcyRAz6)

* [Installing Nodes using NVM](https://docs.google.com/document/u/0/d/1dhSSTBQFAjUeBQ5ldD81IaC7koNznq4zCHfH1qmHDzM/mobilebasic?usp=gmail_thread)

* [Day 1: Computer/Software/IDE Setup](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Mdpnr2owPIfNweP-585h9gG_6qRJ7o5y29WdMhK35w0/edit#heading=h.qgdfwuj69koo)

* [Day 2: React Native Training Course](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xVfj6FU5U66KOUrjjZkWJ3uAaclqmt_RvZVPtJvKo6w/edit)

<p align="left">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
