<div id='top'><div>

<h1 align="center">Learning Journal 23 April 2022 (Saturday)</h1>
<p align="center">My passion to be a programmer came late in life
<br />
Hello, I'm CJ, now working as a Full Stack Developer intern with Activate Interactive to gain valuable job experience, always had a keen interest in User-friendly mobile applications and websites development.
<p>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#quote-and-gratitude-of-the-day">Daily Law, Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#outcome-based-goals">Outcome-Based Goals</a></li>
    <li><a href="#unplanned-work">Unplanned Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-i-had-learned-today">What I had learned today?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#exercise-of-the-day">Challenge Questions</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-difficulties-did-i-encounter-and-how-do-i-solve-the-issues">What difficulties did I encounter and How do I solve the issues?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#What-other-issues-trying-to-resolve?">Other difficulties</a></li>
    <li><a href="#room-to-improve">Room to improve?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</a></li>
    <li><a href="#monthly-experiment">Monthly Experiment</a></li>
    <li><a href="#my-goal">MY GOAL</a></li>
    <li><a href="#possible-project-work">Possible Project Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact-information">Contact Information</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
    <li><a href="#software-installed">Software Installed</a></li>
    <li><a href="#resource-links">Resource Links</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

# Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?
<!-- write this part early in the morning (before the hustle bustle of work) so that I can keep my focus on the big picture. 
It allows me to appreciate the small things in your life. 
Daily Law, Law of the day, Quotes & Gratitude-->
**Law of Life:** <br/>
The Law of Dharma: **"Seek my higher SELF"** <br/>
Discover my unique talents. Ask myself how I am best suited to serve humanity. <br/>
Using my unique talents and serving others bring unlimited bliss and abundance. <br/>

**Daily Law:** <br/>
Fear the Power of Infection <br/>
People sometimes draw misfortune on themselves. <br/>
They will also draw it on me. Associate with the happy and fortunate instead. <br/>

**Quote of the Day:** <br/>
"Create something today even if it sucks." - Some wise man says

**I'm grateful for:** my heart. Breathing in, I'm aware of my heart. Breathing out, I smile to my heart and know that my heart still functions normally.

**How to Approach my Life like the Greats:**
Subconscious Behaviour that are Keeping Me from Having The Life I Want:
<br/>
I extrapolate the present moment because I believe that success is somewhere I "ARRIVE", so I constantly trying to take a snapshot of my life and see if I can be happy yet. <br/>
I convince myself that any giving moment is representative of my life as a whole. <br/>
Because I'm wired to believe that success is somewhere we "GET"" to --> when goals are accomplished and things are completed <br/>
--> I constantly measuring my present moments by how "FINISHED" I am, how good the story sounds, how someone else would judge the elevator speech. <br/>
I find myself thinking: "Is this all there is?" because I forgot that everything is transitory, and no one single instance can summarize the whole. <br/>
There is nowhere to "ARRIVE" to. The only thing I'm rushing toward is DEATH. <br/>
**Accomplishing goals is not success. How much I expand in the process is.**

# Outcome-Based Goals
<!-- This is where I write out my goals/to-do at work. These should be planned and written at the start of the day so I can make progress towards them by the end of the day. -->
<!-- 
S => Precise and specific no room for misinterpreting
M => easy to track
A => must be achievable in 24hour
R => contribute to ultimate goal
T => define start and end date
 -->
**Long Term Goals:**

- [x] To be 1% better than yesterday
    - [] Minimum 4hr of coding today.
    - [x] Read 1 chapter of tech book today
    - [x] Read 1 chapter of selected book today
    - [x] Listen 20min of audiobook today
    - [x] 5min power exercise and 20min brisk walk
- [] I will complete the required training and submit my Full Time Role Application. I will also take on additional work project to demonstrate my readiness to shoulder more responsibility.
- [] I have worked as an Full Stack Developer Intern for 4 months, and will showcase some of my work in the next month. And, my company is looking to take on another software developer at the end of 6 months internship.
- [] I want to keep learning and challenging myself as I progress in my career.
- [] I will take on 1 additional training project every 2 weeks, complete the required training within 7 weeks, and ask for a job status conversion within 5 months.
**Daily Goals:**
- [x] Rest Day

## Unplanned Work
<!-- This is where you write down work that comes up. For example, need me to run a quick errand or my co-worker needs help. My goal should be to finish and record these activities as fast as possible so I can go back to your Outcome-Based Goals ==> the work you planned to get done. -->
1. [] House chores & have fun cooking dinner

## Personal Notes

**Day 17 (Wednesday) and today's main focus:** <br />
Today will be working on house works & dinner preparation.

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Room to improve?
<!-- This is where I write things I can do to improve my work -->
<!-- Reflecting and Reviewing My Daily Work Journal
note To make the most of work journal, ensure to carve out time for review and reflection. 
Doing this at least once/twice a month, however, I may do it more often if career growth is a high priority. 

ask During this time ask yourself:
=> Are my skills growing in the work that I am doing?
=>How am I getting better or plan to get better over the next month?
=>What were some areas of improvements for better productivity at work?
=>Did I spend time on important tasks that will help accelerate my career?

These questions will help me review and unlock areas of improvement (which will be never-ending) in my life, career and work. This step can feel uncomfortable and requires self-awareness and review. -->
- Put too much time on reading and researching on new concepts, practice to shorten the duration by time-boxing to 60 minutes.

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Miscellaneous
<!-- Sometimes the goal or task at hand has many sub-tasks and that is when I use here to write it out and track my progress towards it. -->

## Monthly Experiment
<!-- This is the section where I remind myself what personal growth experiment/ side hustle experiment I am focused on for this day, week, or month. For example, in the above journal entry, I was (and still am) focused on "essential-ism focus" ==> a fancy way to say to focus on one thing and one thing only. -->

## MY GOAL

### Aim to practice by building many small projects with TypeScript then React Native to embed the concepts deeply

#### Possible Project Work

**I wished to:** <br/>

1. Create a marketplace app either host a numbers of ecommerce sites or dedicate app for my wife's Amigurumi doll's e-store
2. A predictive investment signal app based on Technical Analysis, Fundamental Analysis, and Machine Learning that break the Law of irrationalities.
3. A driverless car booking app
4. A food science app that offer unified insights into the ingredients of food in any supermarket
5. A food & nutrition app that provide food portions in smaller sizes to stimulate reduction of food consumption and reduction of food waste
6. A wellness app that provides more scientifically proven and generally understood advices to a health diet
7. An app to provide a more balanced healthcare for the various developed nations
8. An wellness and diet advisor app based on blood test result.
9. A bookstore app that provides a unified platform for all kinds of books and magazines.
10. A multilingual recipe app that provides recipes and nutrition facts to promote eat well eat healthy Southeast-Asia Cuisine.
11. Build a Chatbot that can provide a personalized service to the user based on the user's input

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Contact Information

- Email me => [Christophe Javier Ho (CJ Ho)](javier.ho@activate.sg)
- [My Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)

**Learning Progress:**

- [React Native + Hooks Course](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/RN-Hook_Course)
- [Understanding TypeScript](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/rn-training)
- [Past Daily Journals](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/learningJournal)
- [Practice Folder](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/projectDemo)

**Projects:**

- [eCommerce Mocksite](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/finalProjectCobra)
- [Mini Project Collections](https://codepen.io/your-work)

### Acknowledgments

- Course Resources Provided by:
  - Anya Huang
  - Janna
  - [Udemy](https://nlbsg.udemy.com/)

Million thanks to:

- Anya Huang, our supervisor cum mentor for a welcoming learning environment and providing valuable guidances.
- Janna, our trainer for helping me to understand the concepts and training contents.
- Russell aka Bob, our technical manager.
- My mentor [Kenneth Ham](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kennetham/?originalSubdomain=sg)
- The wonderful team from [Activate Interactive](https://www.activate.sg/), for providing us great internship experiences with a wonderful learning environment and resources.
- Every single marvelous talented course-mates of JFSD Cohort 4 learning together during the 9 months journey:
  - Willy, Janson, Jan, Christmin and Alvin and many others <br />
for their hard work and support.

### Author

Created by:

- [CJ Ho](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)- feel free to contact me :>!!

### Software Installed

<!-- - [Xcode 13](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) -->

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Resource Links

[React Native Training Course Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X1WgRPKxWwenKXswD5xHcuEZ4NFRj8EWmkCC8MLsBwg/edit#heading=h.2gbthfjx9c7r)

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
