<div id='top'><div>

<h1 align="center">Learning Journal 21 April 2022 (Thursday)</h1>
<p align="center">My passion to be a programmer came late in life
<br />
Hello, I'm CJ, now working as a Full Stack Developer intern with Activate Interactive to gain valuable job experience, always had a keen interest in User-friendly mobile applications and websites development.
<p>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#quote-and-gratitude-of-the-day">Daily Law, Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#outcome-based-goals">Outcome-Based Goals</a></li>
    <li><a href="#unplanned-work">Unplanned Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-i-had-learned-today">What I had learned today?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#exercise-of-the-day">Challenge Questions</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-difficulties-did-i-encounter-and-how-do-i-solve-the-issues">What difficulties did I encounter and How do I solve the issues?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#What-other-issues-trying-to-resolve?">Other difficulties</a></li>
    <li><a href="#room-to-improve">Room to improve?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</a></li>
    <li><a href="#monthly-experiment">Monthly Experiment</a></li>
    <li><a href="#my-goal">MY GOAL</a></li>
    <li><a href="#possible-project-work">Possible Project Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact-information">Contact Information</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
    <li><a href="#software-installed">Software Installed</a></li>
    <li><a href="#resource-links">Resource Links</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

# Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?
<!-- write this part early in the morning (before the hustle bustle of work) so that I can keep my focus on the big picture. 
It allows me to appreciate the small things in your life. 
Daily Law, Law of the day, Quotes & Gratitude-->
**Law of Life:** <br/>
The Law of Intention and Desire: **"Make a list of desires"**<br/>
Inherent in every intention and desire is the mechanics for its fulfillment. <br/>
Trust that when things don't seem to go my way, there is a reason. <br/>

**Daily Law:** <br/>
Be Merciless with Your Enemies <br/>
Judge my enemies carefully, looking at their past patterns. <br/>
Sometimes it is best to convert them into an ally and neutralize them. <br/>
But with others it only pays to be merciless and crush them totally. <br/>

**Quote of the Day:** <br/>
"Build a dream and the dream will build you." - Robert H. Schüller

**I'm grateful for:** everything I went through. I learn from the hardships.

# Outcome-Based Goals
<!-- This is where I write out my goals/to-do at work. These should be planned and written at the start of the day so I can make progress towards them by the end of the day. -->
<!-- 
S => Precise and specific no room for misinterpreting
M => easy to track
A => must be achievable in 24hour
R => contribute to ultimate goal
T => define start and end date
 -->
**Long Term Goals:**

- [x] To be 1% better than yesterday
    - [x] Read 1 chapter of selected book today
    - [x] Listen 20min of audiobook today
    - [x] 5min power exercise and 20min brisk walk
- [] I will complete the required training and submit my Full Time Role Application. I will also take on additional work project to demonstrate my readiness to shoulder more responsibility.
- [] I have worked as an Full Stack Developer Intern for 4 months, and will showcase some of my work in the next month. And, my company is looking to take on another software developer at the end of 6 months internship.
- [] I want to keep learning and challenging myself as I progress in my career.
- [] I will take on 1 additional training project every 2 weeks, complete the required training within 7 weeks, and ask for a job status conversion within 5 months.
**Daily Goals:**
- [x] Attend the React Global Online Summit 2022 - Junior track

## Unplanned Work
<!-- This is where you write down work that comes up. For example, need me to run a quick errand or my co-worker needs help. My goal should be to finish and record these activities as fast as possible so I can go back to your Outcome-Based Goals ==> the work you planned to get done. -->
1. [] TBC

## Personal Notes

**Day 18 (Thursday) and today's main focus:** <br />
Today is a rest day after completing online summit from 6pm to 5am on 20 April 2022. I am taking a break from my work and will be back to training in the morning.

## What I had learned today?
<!-- Throughout the day things may pop-up in my head that I may want to personally get done. This section is focused about your personal growth and should be an essential part of your work journal. -->
- An introduction to Design Language System (DLS)
  - Introduction to Storybook for react
  - A UI development tool for designer to understand the overall design principles of an organization.
  - maintain an overview across all available design assets
  - obtain always up-to-date versions of each design asset
  - for developers to understand component states and state changes
  - obtain up-to-do properties and code of UI components
  - understand how components integrate with each
- Atomic design
  - a methodology based metaphors around organic chemistry to help categories UI components emphasising that simpler components are contained in more complex components in a Design System.

- Learn Dexie.js for Offline Data Storage in React Apps
  - Why not LocalStorage?
    - only allow string data
    - limit across major browsers
    - vulnerable to XSS attacks
    - it is synchronous
  - Why IndexedDb?
    - It Asynchronous
    - storage limit depend on user disk space
    - can store multiple data types
    - it structured
    - data can be queried/filtered
  
- Introduction to Generative Art
  - A practice of creating systems that then autonomously create art.
  - It refer to any art practice in which the artist uses a system resulting in a completed work of art.
  
- Learn AG Grid a very Reacty rendering engine
- Learn what is PWA?
- Learn new way of React Routing V6
  - Top level context
  - syntactical changes
  - rendering of components in Route
  - handling layouts and nested routes
  - handling protected routes
  
- see a fail demo in WebBluetooth and a potential use case for using webBluetooth on IoT devices.
  - very interesting concepts worth exploring more
  - GATT - Generic Attribute Profile
  - UUIDs
  - use-ble => a set of react hooks design to simplify interaction with GATT characteristics

- Unit Testing Heavy Components
  - What is "Heavy" Components?
  - Global Mocks
  - Package Mocks
  - Prop Injections
  - Context
- Call React components that don't use global APIs such as fetch "light" components
- example Light Components

```JavaScript
//no dependencies on external APIs, just logic in the component
export const LightWeight = ({ happy }) => {
  return (
    <div>
    I am {happy ? 'happy' : 'sad...'}
    </div>
  )
}
```

- example Light Component Test


```JavaScript
describe('LightWeight', () => {
  it('should render happy message when happy is true', () => {
    render(<LightWeight happy />);
    screen.getByText('I am happy');
  });

  it('should render sad message when happy is false', () => {
    render(<LightWeight happy={false} />);
    screen.getByText('I am sad...');
  });
});
```

- I call React Components that use global APIs such as fetch 'heavy' components
- example Heavy Components

```JavaScript
//a dependency on an external API: fetch
export const Heavy = ({ endpoint }) => {
  const [data, setData] = useState(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    fetch(endpoint)
      .then(async (response) => setData(await response.json()))
  },[]);

  return data
    ? <div>Done: ${data}</div>
    : <div>loading...</div>;
};
```

- example Heavy Component Test

```JavaScript
describe(Heavy, () => {
  it('renders a loading message when data hasn't loaded yet', () => {
    render(<Heavy endpoints="https://google.com" />);
    screen.getByText('loading...');
  });

  it('renders a done message when data has loaded', () => {
    render(<Heavy endpoint="https://google.com" />);
    await screen.findByText(/Done:/);
  });
});
```

- Tests that reply on external network requests or most other global APIs will become flaky
- Global Mocks
  - Mocking out the native environment, bit by bit
- One solution for flaky globals is to jest.fn() them out for all tests

- example Mocking globalThis

```JavaScript
const fetchMock = jest.fn().mockResolvedValue({
  text: async () => "Hi,"
});

Object.defineProperty(globalThis, 'fetch', {
  value: fetchMock,
});
```

- example With fetch-mock

```JavaScript
import fetchMock from 'fetch-mock';
fetchMock.get("/my-endpoint", "Hi!");
```

- Package Mocks
  - Mocking out native environment wrapper packages, bit by bit
- Global and package mock can be a heavy-handed approach.
- It can be hard to know when mocks are newly needed or even no longer needed.

- Learn Bootstrap to TailwindCSS
  - Pro & Con for update Bootstrap theme to resonate with TailwindCSS default theme
  - cons:
    - class & styles mismatch
    - hard to update the theme
    - big risk for potential issues
    - hard to replace Bootstrap later
  - pros:
    - customer value
    - save time & $$$

  - Pro & Con to create a DLS with TailwindCSS to be used throughout the different projects
    - cons:
      - time & $$$
      - to develop & integrate
      - no value for the customer
    - pros:
      - DLS
      - nice, sweet & clean

  - Pro & Con to integrate TailwindCSS and use it together with Bootstrap
    - cons:
      - class & style mismatches
      - messy / ugly
      - anti-pattern
    - pros:
      - customer value
      - save time & $$$
      - remove Bootstrap later
      - prepare for the DLS

- Learn about React Bug Catcher
  - understanding what debugging is and know tools and strategies to debug React applications
  - Debugging is the process of identifying and fixing failures in a system
  - Bugs are introduced by developers
  - Debugging is an crucial part of every developer's work
  - How I approach a problem has a huge impact on my ability to solve it?
    - This bug makes no sense ==> let's find the logic behind this
    - How can this even be happening? ==> I need to investigate this scenario further
    - This is too difficult for me to understand ==> Let's learn the basics first
    - I'll never solve this bug ==> With enough time, I can solve this bug
  - Bugs happen for logical reasons
  - All bugs can be debugged
  - Debugging is a skill that can be strengthened
  - All bugs can be debugged
  - General debugging steps:
    1. Reproduce  ==> Find the scenario that produces the bug
    2. Research   ==> Search around for answers
    3. Isolate    ==> Isolate the bug
    4. Experiment ==> replicate the bug in a sandbox
        - Hypothesize ==> Make an educated guess
        - Test        ==> One variable at a time
        - Evaluate    ==> Was my hypothesis correct?
        - Repeat?     ==> Keep going until I have a solution
    5. Resolve    ==> Resolve the bug and add safeguards to prevent others like it
    6. Learn      ==> Learn from experience

- Tools for debugging:
  - Browser DevTools
  - React DevTools

- Componentizing Application State with Xstate

- Using Solid + React to build my first decentralized app
  - Solid is a set of rules that allow us to create an environment where users have total control over their data and apps just consume information that are enabled to use
- How Solid achieve this?
  - POD + Interoperable Standards + Unique ID
<br/>

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Room to improve?
<!-- This is where I write things I can do to improve my work -->
<!-- Reflecting and Reviewing My Daily Work Journal
note To make the most of work journal, ensure to carve out time for review and reflection. 
Doing this at least once/twice a month, however, I may do it more often if career growth is a high priority. 

ask During this time ask yourself:
=> Are my skills growing in the work that I am doing?
=>How am I getting better or plan to get better over the next month?
=>What were some areas of improvements for better productivity at work?
=>Did I spend time on important tasks that will help accelerate my career?

These questions will help me review and unlock areas of improvement (which will be never-ending) in my life, career and work. This step can feel uncomfortable and requires self-awareness and review. -->
- Continue to work on the more advance React Native concepts, its feature, workflows and how to use it.

- Day 19 is continue to learn and practice on Day 12 & 13 notes of React Native concepts and at the same time work on TypeScript projects.

- To finish up day 18 daily journal

- to redo Day 12 exercise and challenge

- to tidy up and plan next action on my 10 aspects of life refocus on the things that I am doing well and the things that I am doing poorly for the Month May

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Miscellaneous
<!-- Sometimes the goal or task at hand has many sub-tasks and that is when I use here to write it out and track my progress towards it. -->

## Monthly Experiment
<!-- This is the section where I remind myself what personal growth experiment/ side hustle experiment I am focused on for this day, week, or month. For example, in the above journal entry, I was (and still am) focused on "essential-ism focus" ==> a fancy way to say to focus on one thing and one thing only. -->

## MY GOAL

### Aim to practice by building many small projects with TypeScript then React Native to embed the concepts deeply

#### Possible Project Work

**I wished to:** <br/>

1. Create a marketplace app either host a numbers of ecommerce sites or dedicate app for my wife's Amigurumi doll's e-store
2. A predictive investment signal app based on Technical Analysis, Fundamental Analysis, and Machine Learning that break the Law of irrationalities.
3. A driverless car booking app
4. A food science app that offer unified insights into the ingredients of food in any supermarket
5. A food & nutrition app that provide food portions in smaller sizes to stimulate reduction of food consumption and reduction of food waste
6. A wellness app that provides more scientifically proven and generally understood advices to a health diet
7. An app to provide a more balanced healthcare for the various developed nations
8. An wellness and diet advisor app based on blood test result.
9. A bookstore app that provides a unified platform for all kinds of books and magazines.
10. A multilingual recipe app that provides recipes and nutrition facts to promote eat well eat healthy Southeast-Asia Cuisine.
11. Build a Chatbot that can provide a personalized service to the user based on the user's input

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Contact Information

- Email me => [Christophe Javier Ho (CJ Ho)](javier.ho@activate.sg)
- [My Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)

**Learning Progress:**

- [React Native + Hooks Course](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/RN-Hook_Course)
- [Understanding TypeScript](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/rn-training)
- [Past Daily Journals](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/learningJournal)
- [Practice Folder](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/projectDemo)

**Projects:**

- [eCommerce Mocksite](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/finalProjectCobra)
- [Mini Project Collections](https://codepen.io/your-work)

### Acknowledgments

- Course Resources Provided by:
  - Anya Huang
  - Janna
  - [Udemy](https://nlbsg.udemy.com/)

Million thanks to:

- Anya Huang, our supervisor cum mentor for a welcoming learning environment and providing valuable guidances.
- Janna, our trainer for helping me to understand the concepts and training contents.
- Russell aka Bob, our technical manager.
- My mentor [Kenneth Ham](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kennetham/?originalSubdomain=sg)
- The wonderful team from [Activate Interactive](https://www.activate.sg/), for providing us great internship experiences with a wonderful learning environment and resources.
- Every single marvelous talented course-mates of JFSD Cohort 4 learning together during the 9 months journey:
  - Willy, Janson, Jan, Christmin and Alvin and many others <br />
for their hard work and support.

### Author

Created by:

- [CJ Ho](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)- feel free to contact me :>!!

### Software Installed

<!-- - [Xcode 13](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) -->

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Resource Links

[React Native Training Course Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X1WgRPKxWwenKXswD5xHcuEZ4NFRj8EWmkCC8MLsBwg/edit#heading=h.2gbthfjx9c7r)

[Day 12: React Native State Management](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BL3dsmubQsmnpAQhi0fTYJIMz8O4lv69ROukn39dsuc/edit#)

[Day 13: React Native State Management](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oK5syZNKl84an6b5rg3EHRSIEajXKJzBefa9rV4nxe0/edit)

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
