<div id='top'><div>

<h1 align="center">Learning Journal 20 April 2022 (Wednesday)</h1>
<p align="center">My passion to be a programmer came late in life
<br />
Hello, I'm CJ, now working as a Full Stack Developer intern with Activate Interactive to gain valuable job experience, always had a keen interest in User-friendly mobile applications and websites development.
<p>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#quote-and-gratitude-of-the-day">Daily Law, Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#outcome-based-goals">Outcome-Based Goals</a></li>
    <li><a href="#unplanned-work">Unplanned Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-i-had-learned-today">What I had learned today?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#exercise-of-the-day">Challenge Questions</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-difficulties-did-i-encounter-and-how-do-i-solve-the-issues">What difficulties did I encounter and How do I solve the issues?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#What-other-issues-trying-to-resolve?">Other difficulties</a></li>
    <li><a href="#room-to-improve">Room to improve?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</a></li>
    <li><a href="#monthly-experiment">Monthly Experiment</a></li>
    <li><a href="#my-goal">MY GOAL</a></li>
    <li><a href="#possible-project-work">Possible Project Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact-information">Contact Information</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
    <li><a href="#software-installed">Software Installed</a></li>
    <li><a href="#resource-links">Resource Links</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

# Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?
<!-- write this part early in the morning (before the hustle bustle of work) so that I can keep my focus on the big picture. 
It allows me to appreciate the small things in your life. 
Daily Law, Law of the day, Quotes & Gratitude-->
**Law of Life:** <br/>
The Law of Least Effort: **"Is that so?" Apply the power of non-resistance**<br/>
Shows the good through inner non-resistance. <br/>
Accept people, situations and events as they occur. Take responsibility for my situation and for all events seen as problems. <br/>
Relinquish the need to defend my point of view. <br/>

**Daily Law:** <br/>
Be Royal in My Own Fashion <br/>
By acting regally and confident of my powers, I make myself seem destined to wear a crown.<br/>

**Quote of the Day:** <br/>
"The best teachers are those who show you where to look, but don't tell you where to see." - Alexandra K. Trenfor

**I'm grateful for:** a grateful heart. It is a beginning of greatness. <br/> It is an expression of humility. It is a foundation for the development of such virtues as prayer, faith, courage, contentment, happiness, love, and well-being.<br/>

# Outcome-Based Goals
<!-- This is where I write out my goals/to-do at work. These should be planned and written at the start of the day so I can make progress towards them by the end of the day. -->
<!-- 
S => Precise and specific no room for misinterpreting
M => easy to track
A => must be achievable in 24hour
R => contribute to ultimate goal
T => define start and end date
 -->
**Long Term Goals:**

- [x] To be 1% better than yesterday
    - [x] Minimum 4hr of coding today.
    - [] complete an practice project today
    - [x] Read 1 technical article today
    - [x] Read 1 chapter of selected book today
    - [x] Listen 20min of audiobook today
    - [x] 5min power exercise and 20min brisk walk
- [] I will complete the required training and submit my Full Time Role Application. I will also take on additional work project to demonstrate my readiness to shoulder more responsibility.
- [] I have worked as an Full Stack Developer Intern for 4 months, and will showcase some of my work in the next month. And, my company is looking to take on another software developer at the end of 6 months internship.
- [] I want to keep learning and challenging myself as I progress in my career.
- [] I will take on 1 additional training project every 2 weeks, complete the required training within 7 weeks, and ask for a job status conversion within 5 months.
    **Daily Goals:**
    - [x] Attend <React Global> Online Summit 2022 @1800 today
    - [x] Complete understanding functional programming concepts 

## Unplanned Work
<!-- This is where you write down work that comes up. For example, need me to run a quick errand or my co-worker needs help. My goal should be to finish and record these activities as fast as possible so I can go back to your Outcome-Based Goals ==> the work you planned to get done. -->
1. [] Laundry
2. [] extra rest for recovery

## Personal Notes

**Day 17 (Wednesday) and today's main focus:** <br />
Today will be working on Day 12 notes of React Native concepts "State MManagement", keep practicing and try out some online mini project to further familiarize at the same time troubleshooting TextStyleProps Type errors.

## What I had learned today?
<!-- Throughout the day things may pop-up in my head that I may want to personally get done. This section is focused about your personal growth and should be an essential part of your work journal. -->
- A deeper understand on 6 types of functional programming

1. **Principles: Layout Props, Functional programming**

- Layout Props

- Functional Programming
  - some of the basic principles
    1. Pure Function
    2. Deterministic Function
    3. Higher-order Function
    4. Immutability
    5. Currying or Partial Function
    6. Function composition

1. Pure Function

  - Pure functions are deterministic function with no side-effect.
  - Meaning, The out will be always the same for the same inputs. 
  - Same time, it will not consume any other global variables.
  - Given some input ==> Pure Function ==> Returns same output every time.
  - In the example below, no matter what for the same inputs, the output will be the same.
  - The advantage of having a pure function, It is easy to understand and test. 
  - However, It is very hard to build an entire Application just using Pure Function. 
  - We needed some deterministic function too.

- note React.js Pure components are deterministic in nature, but they are not a pure function. It has side-effects in it like React.createElement which create document elements.
  
```JavaScript
  //Example of Pure Function:

function calculateInterest(p: number, t: number, r: number) {
  return (p * t * r) / 100;
}

console.log(calculateInterest(1000, 5, 5));

//250
```

2. Deterministic Function
  -A Deterministic function is where the output of the function is always deterministic. 
  It may have side-effect but still, the output should not change with time. 
  The same input should result in the same output

```JavaScript
//simple example
function trim(str: string) {
  return str.replace(/^\s+|\s+$/g, "");
}

console.log(trim("    This text had extra spaces.. "));

// "This text had extra spaces.."
```

example A deterministic function can have a side-effect. Meaning, It can have access to global variables.

```JavaScript
enum Gender {
  MR = 'Mr.",
  MS = 'Miss.',
}

function greeting(name: string, is: GENDER = GENDER.MR) {
  return `Hello, ${is === GENDER.MR ? GENDER.MR : GENDER.MS} ${name}`;
}
console.log(greeting('CJ));

//"Hello, Mr. CJ"
```


<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Exercise of the Day

[x] **Challenge:** Reusable Color Adjusters

   - Challenge Questions:
1. Create a new screen SquareScreen and add navigation to the SquareScreen from the HomeScreen
2. Create ColorCounter to the component folder 

3. Add ColorCounter to the parent screen of SquareScreen

4. Understand button click from the child component of ColorCounter will call the setState of the parent component of SquareScreen

5. Understand how the states of the colors take effect on the View of the square screen.

6. Apply the same component and screen to the react-native-starter project,
==> Try to add the color label under the color square.
==> Convert the states of red, blue, green into a state of object with property of red, blue and green
==> Try the initial state with null and fix the issue to make it work.

7. note that if you keep clicking "Increase Button"/"Decrease Button", the value of the color will be more than 255/less than 0, which is out of the maximal/minimal range of color. will fix this tomorrow.

8. Three questions:
  - What piece of data inside this application is changing?
  - What type of data is it? Is it a number, a string, an object, or an array?
  - What is the starting value of that piece of data?
  - Try to change the initial values of red, green and blue to see the effect.

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Room to improve?
<!-- This is where I write things I can do to improve my work -->
<!-- Reflecting and Reviewing My Daily Work Journal
note To make the most of work journal, ensure to carve out time for review and reflection. 
Doing this at least once/twice a month, however, I may do it more often if career growth is a high priority. 

ask During this time ask yourself:
=> Are my skills growing in the work that I am doing?
=>How am I getting better or plan to get better over the next month?
=>What were some areas of improvements for better productivity at work?
=>Did I spend time on important tasks that will help accelerate my career?

These questions will help me review and unlock areas of improvement (which will be never-ending) in my life, career and work. This step can feel uncomfortable and requires self-awareness and review. -->
- Put too much time on reading and researching on new concepts, practice to shorten the duration by time-boxing to 60 minutes.

- Continue to work on the more advance React Native concepts, its feature, workflows and how to use it.

- Imposter Symptoms prevention

- need to be more productive than usual, signs of procrastinations is noticeable.

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Miscellaneous
<!-- Sometimes the goal or task at hand has many sub-tasks and that is when I use here to write it out and track my progress towards it. -->

## Monthly Experiment
<!-- This is the section where I remind myself what personal growth experiment/ side hustle experiment I am focused on for this day, week, or month. For example, in the above journal entry, I was (and still am) focused on "essential-ism focus" ==> a fancy way to say to focus on one thing and one thing only. -->

## MY GOAL

### Aim to practice by building many small projects with TypeScript then React Native to embed the concepts deeply

#### Possible Project Work

**I wished to:** <br/>

1. Create a marketplace app either host a numbers of ecommerce sites or dedicate app for my wife's Amigurumi doll's e-store
2. A predictive investment signal app based on Technical Analysis, Fundamental Analysis, and Machine Learning that break the Law of irrationalities.
3. A driverless car booking app
4. A food science app that offer unified insights into the ingredients of food in any supermarket
5. A food & nutrition app that provide food portions in smaller sizes to stimulate reduction of food consumption and reduction of food waste
6. A wellness app that provides more scientifically proven and generally understood advices to a health diet
7. An app to provide a more balanced healthcare for the various developed nations
8. An wellness and diet advisor app based on blood test result.
9. A bookstore app that provides a unified platform for all kinds of books and magazines.
10. A multilingual recipe app that provides recipes and nutrition facts to promote eat well eat healthy Southeast-Asia Cuisine.
11. Build a Chatbot that can provide a personalized service to the user based on the user's input

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Contact Information

- Email me => [Christophe Javier Ho (CJ Ho)](javier.ho@activate.sg)
- [My Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)

**Learning Progress:**

- [React Native + Hooks Course](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/RN-Hook_Course)
- [Understanding TypeScript](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/rn-training)
- [Past Daily Journals](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/learningJournal)
- [Practice Folder](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/projectDemo)

**Projects:**

- [eCommerce Mocksite](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/finalProjectCobra)
- [Mini Project Collections](https://codepen.io/your-work)

### Acknowledgments

- Course Resources Provided by:
  - Anya Huang
  - Janna
  - [Udemy](https://nlbsg.udemy.com/)

Million thanks to:

- Anya Huang, our supervisor cum mentor for a welcoming learning environment and providing valuable guidances.
- Janna, our trainer for helping me to understand the concepts and training contents.
- Russell aka Bob, our technical manager.
- My mentor [Kenneth Ham](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kennetham/?originalSubdomain=sg)
- The wonderful team from [Activate Interactive](https://www.activate.sg/), for providing us great internship experiences with a wonderful learning environment and resources.
- Every single marvelous talented course-mates of JFSD Cohort 4 learning together during the 9 months journey:
  - Willy, Janson, Jan, Christmin and Alvin and many others <br />
for their hard work and support.

### Author

Created by:

- [CJ Ho](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)- feel free to contact me :>!!

### Software Installed

<!-- - [Xcode 13](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) -->

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Resource Links

[React Native Training Course Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X1WgRPKxWwenKXswD5xHcuEZ4NFRj8EWmkCC8MLsBwg/edit#heading=h.2gbthfjx9c7r)

[Day 11: React Native ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cRvpoFv6bLiW_IqifuowDRvnL07YTNZ_O9bdT-GoYOg/edit)

[Functional Programming In JavaScript/TypeScript for Beginners](https://blog.decipher.dev/functional-programming-in-javascript-typescript-for-beginners)

[6 Ways to Supercharge the Android Emulator](https://www.codementor.io/android/tutorial/6-ways-to-supercharge-the-android-emulator)

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
