<div id='top'><div>

<h1 align="center">Learning Journal 17 April 2022 (Sunday)</h1>
<p align="center">My passion to be a programmer came late in life
<br />
Hello, I'm CJ, now working as a Full Stack Developer intern with Activate Interactive to gain valuable job experience, always had a keen interest in User-friendly mobile applications and websites development.
<p>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#quote-and-gratitude-of-the-day">Daily Law, Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#outcome-based-goals">Outcome-Based Goals</a></li>
    <li><a href="#unplanned-work">Unplanned Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-i-had-learned-today">What I had learned today?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#exercise-of-the-day">Challenge Questions</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-difficulties-did-i-encounter-and-how-do-i-solve-the-issues">What difficulties did I encounter and How do I solve the issues?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#What-other-issues-trying-to-resolve?">Other difficulties</a></li>
    <li><a href="#room-to-improve">Room to improve?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</a></li>
    <li><a href="#monthly-experiment">Monthly Experiment</a></li>
    <li><a href="#my-goal">MY GOAL</a></li>
    <li><a href="#possible-project-work">Possible Project Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact-information">Contact Information</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
    <li><a href="#software-installed">Software Installed</a></li>
    <li><a href="#resource-links">Resource Links</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

# Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?
<!-- write this part early in the morning (before the hustle bustle of work) so that I can keep my focus on the big picture. 
It allows me to appreciate the small things in your life. 
Daily Law, Law of the day, Quotes & Gratitude-->
**Law of Life:** <br/>
The Law of of Pure Potentiality: **Practice: "Maybe"**<br/>
Illustrate the wisdom of non-judgement <br/>
Take time to be silent, to just BE. Meditate for 20min twice today.<br/>
Silently witness the intelligence within every living thing. Practice non-judgement.

**Daily Law:** <br/>
Stay Above the Fray <br/>
Always try to inwardly maintain my independence and avoid entanglements not of my choosing.

**Quote of the Day:** <br/>
"Regard it as more courageous not to become involved in an engagement than to win in battle,<br/>
and when there is already one interfering fool, take care that there shall not be two." - Baltasar Gracian

**I'm grateful that:** God gave me a gift of 86,400 seconds everyday. Remember to use one to say 'thank you' today?

# Outcome-Based Goals
<!-- This is where I write out my goals/to-do at work. These should be planned and written at the start of the day so I can make progress towards them by the end of the day. -->
1. []To be 1% better than yesterday
2. []To complete 5 reusable components tutorial
3. 2x 20min meditation @ noon & 6pm
   [X]noon
   []6pm
4. []plan for next week schedule
5. []finish all learning related task by 2pm 

## Unplanned Work
<!-- This is where you write down work that comes up. For example, need me to run a quick errand or my co-worker needs help. My goal should be to finish and record these activities as fast as possible so I can go back to your Outcome-Based Goals ==> the work you planned to get done. -->
1. TBC

## Personal Notes

**Day 14 (Sunday) and today's main focus:** <br />
Continue to work on Day 9 React Native concepts, keep practicing and try out some online tutorials to further familiarize

## What I had learned today?
<!-- Throughout the day things may pop-up in my head that I may want to personally get done. This section is focused about your personal growth and should be an essential part of your work journal. -->
- understand how to create a reusable custom component
- successfully adding new navigation button to screen with reusable component
- understand Parent-Child relationship and how to use screen to encapsulate reusable components
- understand how to configure custom component to make it more concise and how communicating from Parent to Child and display it on User Screen
- understand how to show images and code image path and create new props and pass image into it

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Exercise of the Day

[x] **Challenge:** React Native Custom Component

1. Challenge Questions:
   1. Add the new component to the react-native-starter project and make it work at the Demo page that was created yesterday.
Tips: the filename of the ImageDetail should be ImageDetail.tsx instead of jsx

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## MY GOAL

### Aim to practice by building many small projects with TypeScript then React Native to embed the concepts deeply

#### Possible Project Work

**I wished to:** <br/>

1. Create a marketplace app either host a numbers of ecommerce sites or dedicate app for my wife's Amigurumi doll's e-store
2. A predictive investment signal app based on Technical Analysis, Fundamental Analysis, and Machine Learning that break the Law of irrationalities.
3. A driverless car booking app
4. A food science app that offer unified insights into the ingredients of food in any supermarket
5. A food & nutrition app that provide food portions in smaller sizes to stimulate reduction of food consumption and reduction of food waste
6. A wellness app that provides more scientifically proven and generally understood advices to a health diet
7. An app to provide a more balanced healthcare for the various developed nations
8. An wellness and diet advisor app based on blood test result.
9. A bookstore app that provides a unified platform for all kinds of books and magazines.
10. A multilingual recipe app that provides recipes and nutrition facts to promote eat well eat healthy Southeast-Asia Cuisine.
11. Build a Chatbot that can provide a personalized service to the user based on the user's input

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Contact Information

- Email me => [Christophe Javier Ho (CJ Ho)](javier.ho@activate.sg)
- [My Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)

**Learning Progress:**

- [React Native + Hooks Course](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/RN-Hook_Course)
- [Understanding TypeScript](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/rn-training)
- [Past Daily Journals](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/learningJournal)
- [Practice Folder](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/projectDemo)

**Projects:**

- [eCommerce Mocksite](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/finalProjectCobra)
- [Mini Project Collections](https://codepen.io/your-work)

### Acknowledgments

- Course Resources Provided by:
  - Anya Huang
  - Janna
  - [Udemy](https://nlbsg.udemy.com/)

Million thanks to:

- Anya Huang, our supervisor cum mentor for a welcoming learning environment and providing valuable guidances.
- Janna, our trainer for helping me to understand the concepts and training contents.
- Russell aka Bob, our technical manager.
- My mentor [Kenneth Ham](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kennetham/?originalSubdomain=sg)
- The wonderful team from [Activate Interactive](https://www.activate.sg/), for providing us great internship experiences with a wonderful learning environment and resources.
- Every single marvelous talented course-mates of JFSD Cohort 4 learning together during the 9 months journey:
  - Willy, Janson, Jan, Christmin and Alvin and many others <br />
for their hard work and support.

### Author

Created by:

- [CJ Ho](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)- feel free to contact me :>!!

### Software Installed

<!-- - [Xcode 13](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) -->

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Resource Links

[React Native Training Course Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X1WgRPKxWwenKXswD5xHcuEZ4NFRj8EWmkCC8MLsBwg/edit#heading=h.2gbthfjx9c7r)

[Day 9: React Native Custom Component](https://docs.google.com/document/d/192rnWp4581_NDErzvnU-9kithr9-D-6_YbJr0jmPdOs/edit#heading=h.sjc7nb6il2di)

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
