<div id='top'><div>

<h1 align="center">Learning Journal 22 April 2022 (Friday)</h1>
<p align="center">My passion to be a programmer came late in life
<br />
Hello, I'm CJ, now working as a Full Stack Developer intern with Activate Interactive to gain valuable job experience, always had a keen interest in User-friendly mobile applications and websites development.
<p>

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="#quote-and-gratitude-of-the-day">Daily Law, Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#outcome-based-goals">Outcome-Based Goals</a></li>
    <li><a href="#unplanned-work">Unplanned Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-i-had-learned-today">What I had learned today?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#exercise-of-the-day">Challenge Questions</a></li>
    <li><a href="#what-difficulties-did-i-encounter-and-how-do-i-solve-the-issues">What difficulties did I encounter and How do I solve the issues?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#What-other-issues-trying-to-resolve?">Other difficulties</a></li>
    <li><a href="#room-to-improve">Room to improve?</a></li>
    <li><a href="#miscellaneous">Miscellaneous</a></li>
    <li><a href="#monthly-experiment">Monthly Experiment</a></li>
    <li><a href="#my-goal">MY GOAL</a></li>
    <li><a href="#possible-project-work">Possible Project Work</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact-information">Contact Information</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
    <li><a href="#software-installed">Software Installed</a></li>
    <li><a href="#resource-links">Resource Links</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

# Quotes & Gratitude of the Day?
<!-- write this part early in the morning (before the hustle bustle of work) so that I can keep my focus on the big picture. 
It allows me to appreciate the small things in your life. 
Daily Law, Law of the day, Quotes & Gratitude-->
**Law of Life:** <br/>
The Law of Detachment: **"This too, will pass!"**<br/>
Recognize the fact of impermanence. <br/>
Allow myself and others the freedom to be who they are. Do not force solutions -- allow solutions to spontaneously emerge <br/>
Uncertainty is essential, and my path to freedom. <br/>

**Daily Law:** <br/>
Sow the Seeds of Doubt <br/>
Destroy your rivals with rumours. <br/>

**Quote of the Day:** <br/>
"Success consists of going from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm." - Winston Churchill <br/>

**I'm grateful for:** whatever I have. I will stop complaining - it bores everybody else, does me no good, and does not solve any problems. <br/>

**How to Approach "Life" like the Greats:**
Subconscious Behaviour that are Keeping Me from Having The Life I Want:<br/>
<br/>
I believe that creating my best life is a matter of deciding what I want and then going after it,
but in reality, I am psychologically incapable of being able to predict what will make me happy.
My brain can only perceive what it's known, so when I choose what I want for the future, I am actually just recreating a solution or an ideal of the past.
When things don't work out the way I want them to, I think I have failed only because I didn't re-create something I perceived as desirable.
In reality, I am likely created something better, but foreign, and my brain misinterpreted it as "bad" because of that.
<br/>
(Moral of the story: Living in the moment isn't a lofty ideal reserved for the Zen and enlightened; <br/>
it's the only way to live a life that isn't infiltrated with illusions. <br/>
It's the only thing my brain can actually comprehended.)

# Outcome-Based Goals
<!-- This is where I write out my goals/to-do at work. These should be planned and written at the start of the day so I can make progress towards them by the end of the day. -->
<!-- 
S => Precise and specific no room for misinterpreting
M => easy to track
A => must be achievable in 24hour
R => contribute to ultimate goal
T => define start and end date
 -->
**Long Term Goals:**

- [x] To be 1% better than yesterday
    - [x] Minimum 4hr of coding today.
    - [] Read 1 chapter of tech book today
    - [x] Read 1 chapter of selected book today
    - [] Listen 20min of audiobook today
    - [] 5min power exercise and 20min brisk walk
- [] I will complete the required training and submit my Full Time Role Application. I will also take on additional work project to demonstrate my readiness to shoulder more responsibility.
- [] I have worked as an Full Stack Developer Intern for 4 months, and will showcase some of my work in the next month. And, my company is looking to take on another software developer at the end of 6 months internship.
- [] I want to keep learning and challenging myself as I progress in my career.
- [] I will take on 1 additional training project every 2 weeks, complete the required training within 7 weeks, and ask for a job status conversion within 5 months.
**Daily Goals:**
- [x] redo Day 12 State Management SquareScreen and create a ColorCounter component and learn how to update state of the parent component from the child component.
- [x] complete day 13 State Management and learn how to do validation of the input and update the state accordingly.
- [x] try use different state to achieve the same UI effect and compare the difference

## Unplanned Work
<!-- This is where you write down work that comes up. For example, need me to run a quick errand or my co-worker needs help. My goal should be to finish and record these activities as fast as possible so I can go back to your Outcome-Based Goals ==> the work you planned to get done. -->
1. [] Weekend Groceries Shopping after work

## Personal Notes

**Day 19 (Friday) and today's main focus:** <br />
Today will be working on doing Day 12 & 13 React Native concepts "State Management".

## What I had learned today?
<!-- Throughout the day things may pop-up in my head that I may want to personally get done. This section is focused about your personal growth and should be an essential part of your work journal. -->
- create SquareScreen to contain create square color logic
- create reusable color component to edit main state
- intro to state management with child element
- set state function is passed to the child component from the parent component
- showing state changes and using static variable
- try to change the initial values of red, green and blue to see the effect
- add add bounds check for the color values
- refactor the codes by creating a setColor function and pass in the color and value to update the states of the color
- understand the logic checking with !,  || and && for error handlings
- learnt to refactor the code using switch case
<br/>

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Exercise of the Day

[x] **Challenge:** 
Update state of the parent component from the child component;
try to understand the logic checking with !,  || and &&;
and refactor the codes of logic to achieve the same effect

1. Challenge Questions:
   1. Try to add the color label under the color square.
   2. Convert the states of red, blue, green into a state of object with property of red, blue and green
   3. Try the initial state with null and fix the issue to make it work.
note  if you keep clicking "Increase Button"/"Decrease Button", the value of the color will be more than 255/less than 0, which is out of the maximal/minimal range of color. try to fix this.
2. Continue to refactor the codes 
   1. Use enum of Color for string constant
   2. Combine the state of three colors to be one state with colors object with three properties: red, green and blue.
   3. Please note that we have a destruct here: const { red, green, blue } = colors;
       This makes the minimal change of the previous codes.
   4. Please note that we use  {[Color.RED, Color.BLUE, Color.GREEN].map(item => (...)) to render the buttons for each color
   5. It can be refactored furthermore. Please try to do the refactor by yourselves.

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Room to improve?
<!-- This is where I write things I can do to improve my work -->
<!-- Reflecting and Reviewing My Daily Work Journal
note To make the most of work journal, ensure to carve out time for review and reflection. 
Doing this at least once/twice a month, however, I may do it more often if career growth is a high priority. 

ask During this time ask yourself:
=> Are my skills growing in the work that I am doing?
=>How am I getting better or plan to get better over the next month?
=>What were some areas of improvements for better productivity at work?
=>Did I spend time on important tasks that will help accelerate my career?

These questions will help me review and unlock areas of improvement (which will be never-ending) in my life, career and work. This step can feel uncomfortable and requires self-awareness and review. -->
- practice to start my day with journal, update it throughout the day, and reflect on it at the end of the day.

- Continue to work on the more advance React Native concepts, its feature, workflows and how to use it.

- During weekend is continue to learn and practice on Udemy's TypeScript courses

- explore further on effective learning research on High Leverage and Evidence-Based Practices in Software Development

- to refactor the code to enhance the state management squarescreen file

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Miscellaneous
<!-- Sometimes the goal or task at hand has many sub-tasks and that is when I use here to write it out and track my progress towards it. -->

## Monthly Experiment
<!-- This is the section where I remind myself what personal growth experiment/ side hustle experiment I am focused on for this day, week, or month. For example, in the above journal entry, I was (and still am) focused on "essential-ism focus" ==> a fancy way to say to focus on one thing and one thing only. -->

## MY GOAL

### Aim to practice by building many small projects with TypeScript then React Native to embed the concepts deeply

#### Possible Project Work

**I wished to:** <br/>

1. Create a marketplace app either host a numbers of ecommerce sites or dedicate app for my wife's Amigurumi doll's e-store
2. A predictive investment signal app based on Technical Analysis, Fundamental Analysis, and Machine Learning that break the Law of irrationalities.
3. A driverless car booking app
4. A food science app that offer unified insights into the ingredients of food in any supermarket
5. A food & nutrition app that provide food portions in smaller sizes to stimulate reduction of food consumption and reduction of food waste
6. A wellness app that provides more scientifically proven and generally understood advices to a health diet
7. An app to provide a more balanced healthcare for the various developed nations
8. An wellness and diet advisor app based on blood test result.
9. A bookstore app that provides a unified platform for all kinds of books and magazines.
10. A multilingual recipe app that provides recipes and nutrition facts to promote eat well eat healthy Southeast-Asia Cuisine.
11. Build a Chatbot that can provide a personalized service to the user based on the user's input

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Contact Information

- Email me => [Christophe Javier Ho (CJ Ho)](javier.ho@activate.sg)
- [My Profile](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)

**Learning Progress:**

- [React Native + Hooks Course](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/RN-Hook_Course)
- [Understanding TypeScript](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/rn-training)
- [Past Daily Journals](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/learningJournal)
- [Practice Folder](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/projectDemo)

**Projects:**

- [eCommerce Mocksite](https://github.com/CraftomeCJ/finalProjectCobra)
- [Mini Project Collections](https://codepen.io/your-work)

### Acknowledgments

- Course Resources Provided by:
  - Anya Huang
  - Janna
  - [Udemy](https://nlbsg.udemy.com/)

Million thanks to:

- Anya Huang, our supervisor cum mentor for a welcoming learning environment and providing valuable guidances.
- Janna, our trainer for helping me to understand the concepts and training contents.
- Russell aka Bob, our technical manager.
- My mentor [Kenneth Ham](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kennetham/?originalSubdomain=sg)
- The wonderful team from [Activate Interactive](https://www.activate.sg/), for providing us great internship experiences with a wonderful learning environment and resources.
- Every single marvelous talented course-mates of JFSD Cohort 4 learning together during the 9 months journey:
  - Willy, Janson, Jan, Christmin and Alvin and many others <br />
for their hard work and support.

### Author

Created by:

- [CJ Ho](https://linkedin.com/in/cjho)- feel free to contact me :>!!

### Software Installed

<!-- - [Xcode 13](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) -->

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Resource Links

[React Native Training Course Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X1WgRPKxWwenKXswD5xHcuEZ4NFRj8EWmkCC8MLsBwg/edit#heading=h.2gbthfjx9c7r)

[Day 12: React Native State Managment](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BL3dsmubQsmnpAQhi0fTYJIMz8O4lv69ROukn39dsuc/edit#heading=h.sjc7nb6il2di)

[Day 13: React Native State Management](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oK5syZNKl84an6b5rg3EHRSIEajXKJzBefa9rV4nxe0/edit)

[interface states and props in typescript react](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36745013/interface-states-and-props-in-typescript-react)

[Use Interface Props in Functional Components Using TypeScript with React](https://www.pluralsight.com/guides/use-interface-props-in-functional-components-using-typescript-with-react)

[What is the purpose of export interface Props in React (Typescript ver)](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/55236045/what-is-the-purpose-of-export-interface-props-in-react-typescript-ver)

<p align="center">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
